Hello, comedian and artist Noel Fielding.
Are you excited for Dessert Week?
Not especially.
I've never even had a dessert before.
Eh? How come?
I can't eat. Tragically,
I was born without a mouth.
-Really?
-Yeah. It's very sad.
Well, what are you talking out of now?
This is my butt.
Well, that explains a lot.
[both] Welcome to
The Great British Baking Show.
[mimics passing wind] Sorry.
-[Matt] Ugh.
-Matthew.
Don't be like that. Matthew!
[Matt] No, you've let us both down.
-You wrote this.
-[Matt] Yeah, well, you said it.
-[Noel] Now…
-[both exclaim]
…the bakers indulge in Dessert Week…
[both] Mmm!
…with a cracking Signature…
Come on, man. Don't do this to me.
…and tricky toffee Technical.
Mash it up!
[Noel] But they must save room for
a spectacular, multilayered Showstopper…
Everybody's terrified
about collapsing cakes.
…which will leave the bakers…
[Maggie] This is gonna go splodge.
…ready to burst.
Whoopsie-daisies.
[opening theme playing]
[Amanda] It's Dessert Week!
So excited.
Who wouldn't be?
[Chigs] First thing I look at
in a restaurant is the dessert menu.
I got proper sweet…
I've got sweet teeth,
not a sweet tooth. [chuckles]
I am really nervous of a vegan
substitute for this week.
Definitely not as easy to use.
People were like,
"Why don't you just bail out?"
I was like,
"No, stick by your morals." [chuckles]
My friends will probably say,
"What does Maggie know about desserts?"
"She never eats them."
The truth of that
will be in the eating later on.
Good morning, bakers, and welcome back
to the tent for Dessert Week.
For your Signature challenge,
the judges would love you
to make a beautifully decorated pavlova.
[Matt] Your pavlova
can be any flavour you like,
but it should be perfectly baked
with a crisp outer shell
and have a soft, pillowy centre.
[both] Mmm!
You have two hours and 45 minutes.
-On your marks.
-Get set.
Bake!
[Lizzie] I don't really eat pavlovas.
Sticky toffee pudding I'm about.
You've got to feel
like you've ate something.
Egg whites, innit, and sugar? [laughs]
What can go wrong?
[Paul] What we're looking for
in a pavlova is a crispy exterior
and a little chewy
marshmallow texture inside,
filled with whatever they wish.
To get the texture right,
you need to bake it for an hour,
turn the oven off and leave it cooling
for as long as possible.
The hard part of this is getting
the bake right in the meringue.
They could crack, they could bead, melt,
allow water to come out
or, indeed, collapse.
The middle is always the most difficult.
The bottom needs to be firm enough
to support the fillings
without becoming squishy.
It's a pretty tricky challenge.
There's 101 different reasons
why meringues will fail.
And to do it in two hours 45
makes it even harder.
-Hi, Giuseppe.
-[Giuseppe] Good morning.
Tell us about your pavlova.
It's called "Every Day at the Beach,"
inspired by one of my childhood memories.
So it's going to be peaches and coconut.
Peaches, what my mum used to bring
and coconut is what this guy
used to sell and still does nowadays
shouting, "coco bello"
around the beach every day.
-So delicious.
-I liked everything you said. [chuckles]
[Matt] To bring those hazy days
on the beach to life,
reigning Star Baker Giuseppe
will make a coconut Chantilly cream,
peach crémeux and coulis
encased in a piped French meringue.
It's a basic meringue.
I had problems in the past. I was baking
it at too high temperature and it cracked.
So I'm going at 120 degrees
for 75 minutes first
and then at least half an hour
with the oven off.
-[Paul] Good luck. Thank you.
-Thank you.
-Cheers.
-Have a good one.
[Matt] While Giuseppe's celebrating
peachy times with Mama,
it's extended family on Crystelle's mind.
[Crystelle] My godmother Pamela,
we call her "Pamlova"
because she is amazing at pavlovas
and brings one to every family event.
But she didn't give me
the recipe. [laughs]
I'm still doing this in honour of her
even though I do slightly resent her.
[laughs]
[Noel] Pamela's secret might be safe,
but Crystelle has a plan
involving coconut crumble,
lime curd and kiwi slices
to create a twist on a dessert classic
and a favourite of a certain
steely-eyed judge.
Paul Hollywood loves key lime pie.
-Now I'm so panicked.
-[Matt] Why?
He's going to eat it and be like,
"This isn't a key lime pie."
I just find key lime,
the key is always a bit metallic.
-I'm a walking dad joke.
-[laughs]
[George] This is just a basic meringue.
So, it's just about whipping
the eggs and sugar together.
[Noel] Producing stable,
perfectly pillowy meringue
is a delicate, time-consuming process.
I'm adding in caster sugar
just one tablespoon at a time.
If you add lots, you then deflate
all the air you're trying to build up.
[Matt] While some are enhancing
their meringues with flavours…
[Freya] Half a teaspoon
of orange blossom extract.
…and colours…
I'm putting in some food colouring to mine
so it's a purple pavlova.
…Maggie's going back to basics.
[Maggie] I'm making
quite a simple meringue.
There's nothing fancy at all.
But the problem with doing it like that
is the meringue has to be really good.
[Matt] Her classic meringue,
coupled with raspberry syrup,
passion fruit cream
and a medley of frozen fruits,
will be as traditional as it comes.
-So, pretty classic. Yeah.
-Very classic. Yes.
I feel there's no real need
to enhance things.
[laughing] It's that look.
-[Paul] Well, good luck.
-[laughs]
Well, that was fun, wasn't it?
[both laugh]
Just making sure
the sugar's all dissolved.
It's ready. It's very stiff
and it's very glossy.
[Amanda] I'm gonna start shaping it.
My pavlova's called "Pav-love"
because I have a lovely,
heart-shaped chopping board.
It looks nice on there.
If it doesn't collapse.
[Matt] Assuming her heart
is up to the job,
Amanda will fill it
with a rich chocolate mascarpone
offset with a tangy raspberry curd.
[Amanda] It's looking
quite stiff, isn't it?
And hopefully it will keep its shape.
Otherwise, it won't be a heart,
it will just be a splodge.
[Noel] Whether shaped by hand…
I mean, this is meant to be a circle.
…or piped…
[Crystelle] I'm not going
for a very tall pavlova.
I'm going for a fancy flat one.
…the bakers must mould
their sticky meringue…
Gonna attempt to kind of do
some sort of pattern. We'll see.
…into fabulous forms.
[Giuseppe] I've gone for
a bit of a crown shape.
[Noel] But for vegan Freya…
[Freya] She's getting there.
…it's even more of a challenge.
This is using aquafaba
instead of the egg whites.
It's a bit less stable.
It doesn't hold at all.
That's going to be good
for this competition.
Yeah, that's going to be great,
in this heat as well, yeah.
-This is a solid start.
-Yikes.
[Matt] While Freya's hoping
her meringue stands up,
she's adding orange blossom to make
her peach Melba flavours stand out.
[Freya] I'm gonna caramelise these peaches
and they go all, like, toasted and golden.
So, at least if the pavlova collapses,
at least we'll have some nice peaches.
Piping skills are ridiculous.
-Ah, thank you.
-[Prue] You really know what you're doing.
-Thank you, Freya. Good luck.
-[Freya] Thank you so much.
She's going in.
[Matt] When it comes to pavlova…
Going in.
…oven time is literally make-or-break.
The secret to this
is to go slow and steady
at a much lower temperature
and a much longer bake.
[Matt] Underbake and the inside will
end up sloppy or, worse still, collapse.
Be good to me.
[Matt] Overbake and the outside
could crack or break off completely.
[Amanda] Right, I'm going to bake it
on 140 for 25 minutes,
and then I'm going to turn it down to 120,
leave it for about another 35 minutes.
[sighs]
Good luck, pav.
Dear sir, I'll wager a shepherd's guinea
that the good gentlemen of this tent
are halfway through
completion of the challenge.
What about the ladies?
Ladies must never appear in the kitchen
for fear of coarsening
their delicate fingers.
Exactly.
I'll just start on the fillings now.
[Noel] The bakers must now perfect
fillings that elevate sugary meringues…
[Crystelle] There are
15 nutritious pavlova.
…to beautifully balanced pavlovas.
[Chigs] Uglier they look, riper they are,
my gran used to tell me.
It needs to be a nice contrast
to the sweet meringue.
It should be a party on your tongue.
[Matt] Guests at Chigs' tongue party
include a Chantilly cream,
chocolate shards,
fresh mango, passion fruit,
and a blast of tropical mango coulis.
-[Noel] How's it going?
-[Chigs] Another day in the office.
-And you're enjoying it?
-Yeah. Loving it.
-You're just getting better and better.
-I think I'm just starting. Starting.
I know. You're like Luke Skywalker.
-Yeah.
-And I feel like Paul's Obi-Wan.
-[Chigs chuckles]
-He knows the Force is strong in you.
Does that make you Yoda?
-I'm Yoda, yeah. Thanks.
-[laughs]
-I'm probably Chewbacca.
-[both laugh]
Bakers, you have one hour left!
Sorry about that.
Two tiny cracks,
which I am not fussed about.
As long as they're not Grand Canyons,
you'll be all right.
[Giuseppe] I'm turning the oven off
and let it go for another half an hour.
I'll leave the pavlova in there
to cool down.
[Matt] Take their meringues out
before they're cold…
So, I think I'm just gonna
pop this open now.
…and all their hard work
could be for nothing.
[Crystelle] If this warm pavlova
hits cold air,
the inside basically shrinks,
and then your meringue cracks.
So, this, in theory, should
gradually bring down the temperature
so you don't get that shock.
[Noel] But with just one oven
and two bakes to complete…
[George] I need that oven
to bake biscuits.
…it's a risk George is willing to take.
I'm gonna transfer my meringue
over to my proving drawer
without dropping it. [exhales]
Hope it's worth it.
All right, these are going in, 12 minutes.
[Noel] As well as spiced
speculoos biscuits
to counterbalance
the sweetness of his meringue,
he's also incorporating
a potent citrus flavour.
I'm just starting my lemon curd now.
I love raw lemon, lemon on everything,
like lemon overload.
I'm going for it.
[Noel] Like George, Jürgen's recipe
also requires some extra baking.
[Jürgen] For decoration,
I'm using matza, unleavened bread.
My wife is Jewish,
and we started to celebrate
the Jewish festivals along the year.
So, I'm making a pavlova
inspired by the flavours of Passover.
[Noel] As well as matza shards
coated in chocolate,
Jürgen's pavlova will feature vanilla
cream and a symbolic charoset paste.
[Prue] So, what's in there?
It's dates, it's a whole orange
with pith and peel,
a bit of cinnamon, bit of cardamom.
Dates are gonna be interesting in this.
Dates are so sweet
and meringue is very sweet.
It's the mortar used by the Jews
to stick the pyramids
and the Pharaoh's cities together.
It's carrying a lot, this little pavlova.
-It is. It is.
-[Paul chuckles]
-You're an artist, Jürgen.
-[Jürgen] Thank you.
[Matt] A religious holiday
has also inspired Lizzie's pavlova.
-[Lizzie] It's an Easter pavlova.
-[Matt] What are the ingredients?
So, when you think Easter,
you think of baby lambs.
You put rosemary on lambs.
So, yeah, that's how I came up with it.
-So, will it taste of lamb?
-That's a bit too far, isn't it?
[Matt] With a purple blueberry meringue,
lemon curd and a bright green
rosemary crème diplomat,
her Easter pavlova
doesn't pull any punches.
As long as the rosemary
isn't too powerful.
Yeah, it is quite subtle.
[Noel] I love the way you say "subtle"
given what you're wearing
and your hair today.
-[Noel and Prue laugh]
-I'm so under the radar.
It's unbelievable.
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
[Crystelle] I think I might take it out.
There's a bit of crackage,
a bit of weeping.
That's the side to look at.
Ignore that side.
[gasps] Maggie's got hers out.
-Oh, has everyone got theirs out?
-Don't follow the pressure.
[hyperventilating]
Here we are. It's cracked around the top,
but I expected that.
[Chigs] That's nice and high.
[Amanda] It's still a heart shape.
[George] I'm going to try
and take it out of the proving drawer.
[Matt] But for George,
his proving drawer technique…
[George] It's cracked a lot more
than what I would've liked.
…hasn't proved to be a success.
But I'm gonna try and disguise it.
I've been criticised for my presentation
over the last few weeks,
so I want to try and have
something nice to present.
-[gasps] Oh, my God, that looks beautiful.
-[Freya] It looks good.
It's when you try and move it,
'cause it's gonna crack a little bit.
Gonna have to be very careful.
Very slow and delicate.
-[Freya] I just daren't do it.
-I just need to do it confidently.
No messing about.
Cracking on now.
Come on, man, don't do this to me.
[Crystelle] I'm trying to find a bit
that doesn't look fragile.
[Chigs] Slowly.
-Got it?
-Yeah.
So far, so good.
[George] Oh, don't put
your fat finger in it.
It's very collapse-y.
Oh, my God, it's moving,
it's moving, it's moving.
Oh, my God.
[exhales heavily]
Bakers, you have ten minutes left!
If you're lucky.
Right, I need to get a move on.
I really need to get a move on.
[Jürgen] I'm going to cook
the matza for five minutes.
[Amanda] I've gotta get it decorated.
[Maggie] I made
some little meringue kisses.
It's not meant to be a candle. [laughs]
I'm putting charoset on.
[George] These are spice biscuits.
I'll blitz them up, whip up some cream,
fold it in and then pipe.
[Amanda] This is my chocolate mascarpone.
Raspberry coulis.
Hopefully it don't make it all mushy.
[George] I think Paul and Prue might have
something to say about this presentation.
Always going on about presentation,
aren't they?
I'd love it if one day you just went…
-Yeah.
-[both laugh]
And then walked out like that,
"See you later, guys."
[Lizzie] I think the colour's lovely,
I don't know if it's appetising.
Looks like some swamp creature.
Bakers, you have one minute left.
Ah!
[Chigs] Come on. Nearly there.
I'm just painting my matza.
[Maggie] I'm putting frozen fruit on top.
Hopefully, it won't leak out.
This here is the mango
and the blueberries.
[Freya] That's cute.
[gasps] Kiwis flying everywhere.
Bakers, your time is up.
Oh, that's it.
[Noel] Please step away
from your pavlovas.
Actually, I believe
the plural is "pavlovi."
-[Matt] Happy?
-Yeah, chuffed to bits.
It sunk and there's some cracks.
It's a pavlova.
[Noel] Nine Signature pavlovas
baked in just two hours 45 minutes
now face the judgment of Paul and Prue.
-[Prue] Hi, Crystelle.
-Hello.
-Hi.
-Hi, Crystelle.
-[Paul] Looks great.
-Those little egg shapes are lovely.
So, I've got a coconut streusel base,
a lime curd, and then fresh Kiwis.
[Prue] Delicious.
Really strong lime
which goes beautifully with the meringue.
The sides are too thick.
You've got, like, an impenetrable wall
you've gotta get through.
-But flavours are great though.
-[sighs] I'll take that.
We have the pyramids in matza.
-So, just the basic pavlova, then.
-[Jürgen] Just the basic pavlova.
[Paul] The idea is very good.
It's a little untidy. It's cracked a bit.
[Prue] That is so unusual.
You get the dates first
and then the orange.
It's a great blend of flavours,
and it works in that pavlova.
I would have thought it wouldn't have
enough acidity, but it does.
Jürgen's back.
-Thank you.
-[Prue laughs]
Mazel tov.
[laughing] Thank you.
[Paul] I mean, it's not the most
attractive looking pavlova.
-'Cause that green is… [laughs]
-[Prue] It looks…
[Lizzie] It is blueberry, rosemary,
and lemon curd.
It's like something
out of a Willy Wonka Factory.
[Matt] Yeah.
I like the rosemary. Very good lemon curd.
The flavours are spot-on.
I just think it's a bit stodgy.
Love the appearance.
Has cracked a little bit.
I would have put more raspberry,
less chocolate.
-[Prue] The chocolate is so dominant.
-Okay.
-[Prue] George, I think it looks awful.
[Paul] The baking hasn't worked either.
That idea of putting it in the proving
drawer to get that sort of crack in there.
It's all marshmallow, isn't it?
You need to hollow it out more.
-The flavours are great.
-[George] Okay.
-The speculoos with the lemon.
-Absolutely delicious.
It's not all bad news. Thank you.
-I think "informal" is a good word to use.
-Exactly.
[Prue] Higgledy-piggledy.
[Paul] Structurally, it's lost its way.
-It's collapsed a little bit on the side.
-[Maggie] Yes.
The flavours are lovely.
I think it does look a bit of a mess.
It looks really summery and delicious.
[Paul] I think you could've baked it
a little bit longer.
-Because of that.
-[Giuseppe] Yes.
[Paul] It's broken away.
Mmm. Flavours are so fresh and summery.
The peachy cream is just delicious.
-Yeah. Thank you.
-[Prue] Well done.
-[Prue] Looks fantastic.
-Decoration looks very good.
-But…
-Oh, gosh.
The proof is literally in the pudding.
[Paul] Wow, it's like an Eton mess.
The aquafaba doesn't hold up well at all.
[Paul] They're not very strong flavours.
-They're not tangy or tart enough.
-[Freya] Okay.
If you get a slice
of the candied peach, it's good.
But the, sort of, sloppy bit
in the middle, that's not very nice.
-[Paul] That looks amazing.
-[Prue] I love the edge.
Just so casually, but elegantly swirled.
Beautiful. All right, let's have a look.
That just falls through.
-Are you excited?
-I am.
-That's for you.
-[Prue] Oh, look at that.
It's filled with Chantilly cream
and a mango and passion fruit coulis.
[Prue] It's lovely, soft,
but stable in the middle.
And crunchy outside.
I think it's wonderful.
The acidity and the cream is just lovely.
[Paul] There's a nice marshmallow
in there, its stable enough to hold it.
It's quite difficult to get that balance.
But the way you've done the top
and the chocolate, I can't, you know…
-[laughing]
-[Lizzie] Wow.
-[Paul] Well done.
-[Chigs] Thank you both. Thank you.
[Matt] Whoo!
-[exclaims]
-[Matt] Wow.
-Were you expecting that?
-No, no, not at all.
[Chigs] I can't believe it.
Hollywood handshake.
My work here is done now. [chuckles]
Paul said, "Jürgen is back,"
so I take that comment.
It's great.
I need to do well
in Technicals, definitely.
Going to go in with a positive attitude
and do my best.
All still to play for in Dessert Week.
[Noel] The bakers
could practice their pavlovas,
but their next challenge
is a complete mystery.
Bakers, welcome back to the tent
for your Technical challenge,
which, today, has been set
by the evil Prue-Ella De Vil.
This recipe requires
some serious multitasking,
so get organised.
[grunts] Shivers up my spine.
As ever, this task is judged blind,
so we ask the judges to leave the tent.
For your Technical challenge,
Evil Prue would like you each to make
four individual sticky toffee puddings.
Your sticky toffee puddings
need to be perfectly baked
and served with sticky toffee sauce.
-Would've thought that was obvious.
-You would've thought so.
Your sticky toffee pudding
should be decorated with tuile triangles
and served alongside
a smooth crème anglaise.
[both] Mmm…
[Matt] You have 90 minutes.
-[Noel] On your marks…
-Get set…
-Bake!
-[Crystelle sighs]
[chuckling] Why?
[exhales heavily]
I love sticky toffee pudding.
It's great, isn't it?
[Amanda] My husband makes
the sticky toffee pudding at home.
That's his thing.
So I never have to make it.
Now I wish I had.
I've never, ever made one. [chuckles]
We'll see how it goes.
This may be… I never have before,
maybe never, ever again.
-[Paul] So, sticky toffee pudding.
-Who doesn't like a sticky toffee pudding?
It's quite a complicated challenge.
They have to make the pudding,
they have to make caramel sauce,
the crème anglaise
and they have to make tuile.
Of course, the sponge
is the most important thing.
The problem might be that they'll think
it's cooked when it's not.
So the danger is slightly undercooking.
Mmm, that is a lovely light sponge.
You can see it's baked all the way through
with that beautiful caramel on the top.
Crème anglaise is beautifully smooth,
and it's that blend between the two.
The whole lot is lovely together.
I'm sure a couple of 'em
will get it spot-on.
I don't think we'll have any disasters.
This recipe
seems quite brief and complicated.
[Chigs] I'll make the tuile first,
which I've never done before.
I think it's a really thin,
skinny biscuit.
"Tuile"? Tuile? Tules?
"Cook the butter,
lemon juice and liquid glucose…"
"Remove from the heat
and stir in the dry ingredients…"
[George] Right. Hazelnuts,
sesame seeds, flour, butter…
Is this right?
Okay.
I've got to let it rest.
I am now on… Make toffee sauce.
The sauce is the best part, hands down.
"Make a wet caramel,
then add the cream, butter and vanilla."
To make a wet caramel…
Does that mean
that you put water in the caramel?
[nervously] I don't know.
[Jürgen] Hot water
speeds up absorption of liquid.
[Chigs] Gotta wait for this now
to go to a nice golden colour.
[Jürgen] It is starting to brown.
[Giuseppe] Now is the fun part,
pouring the cream.
It's coming, but there's some
lumps of crystals in there.
[George] This is gonna burn.
I need to add some vanilla
to take out the burning smell.
[Amanda] Doesn't look
very caramelly, does it?
[exclaiming] Ah! Oh, no.
[sighs]
[Jürgen] Should bake my tuile,
because I'll need
the oven for the pudding.
Spread the tuile mixture into a rectangle.
It's not really a rectangle, is it?
-[beeps]
-[Jürgen] Tuile is in.
There is no guidance whatsoever.
The point there is, "Bake."
Oh!
Oh, no, she died.
Do you think I can just use it?
It's fine. They won't know. [chuckles]
Oh, no. Today's just not my day.
Right.
Bakers, half of you are halfway through.
The other half have half a challenge left.
You're halfway through.
Well, this is coming out.
[Maggie] Come on.
So, we let this cool a little bit
and then I'll cut it.
And the next step
is to make the pudding batter.
I've got the chopped dates,
the self-raising flour,
butter, dark muscovado sugar…
And butter. I said butter already.
And chopped dates.
I've got some butter and sugar in here.
I'm not sure if I need the flour.
I have my doubts, somehow.
I'll just read the recipe again.
-[Noel] Maggie.
-[Maggie] Hello.
[Noel] I'm gonna write number 11.
Anything will help.
-[laughs]
-"Push Paul into a ditch."
[both laughing]
Number 12,
"Maggie gets taken away by the police."
Now, when they ask you about the recipe,
go, "What are these?"
-[Maggie laughing]
-[George] What's next?
I've got butter on my face.
"Spoon some of the toffee sauce
into the pudding mould."
It's always gutting when you turn them out
and there's no sauce.
[Chigs] Divide the batter up
equally into the moulds.
[Jürgen] Looks good.
It's looking runny.
Let's stay with it, Mag.
Don't change anything now.
[Jürgen] Going in.
I'll check in 20 minutes.
I'll go for 15 minutes to start with,
and see how it goes.
[Chigs] Don't know how long for.
I'm going for 15 minutes initially
and see what happens.
[Matt] Now you got a handshake,
I was wondering if you would
get a tattoo to commemorate…
[laughs] What would it look like?
A sort of greasy, chubby-fingered hand
on a part of your body.
Whereabouts?
-Well, I daren't say…
-[laughs]
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
What you doing with that?
I just get upset
when one of the bakers leaves,
so this week I'm gonna go instead.
Good idea.
I'm making the crème anglaise.
It's just thin custard.
I've never made
a real custard with eggs before.
Not a good start. [chuckles]
[Chigs] I'm warming the milk,
cream and vanilla.
Then I'll start adding
a little milk at a time.
I can always do with a workout.
It's very fine balance
where it goes from custard to fried egg.
[Maggie] This is probably
the only thing that's right.
And if I burn this,
then I'm really stuffed.
[Jürgen] That's nice.
Oh, no! There's lumps in it.
Hot!
Feel like it definitely is scrambled.
Bakers, you have 15 minutes.
-[gasps]
-I was gonna say that.
The crème anglaise is done.
All I have to wait
is for the puddings to cook.
-[Jürgen] They haven't collapsed.
-Nope.
Skewer's wet,
but that wet could be the caramel sauce.
I just don't want them to be raw.
[Amanda] They're rising.
I'll do them for two more minutes,
'cause they're soggy.
-You all right?
-[Maggie] I just looked in the oven.
I've got little splodgy messes
in the bottom of the pudding basins.
It's just sunken to a gluey mess.
I must have left something out.
But it's all ticked off.
-[Giuseppe] The other page is?
-[Maggie] No flour.
No, there is flour. There you go. Yeah.
Oh, right. That's what I didn't do.
I knew there was something.
-Bakers, you have five minutes…
-[both] Left.
-Time to get them out.
-[timer beeps]
-Shaky.
-There's sticky toffee pudding. [chuckles]
I think I should turn them out
while they're still warm.
Are you doing a magic trick?
I will need three of those
and a little ball with that one.
-[Noel laughs]
-[Crystelle] How on earth?
Do I just… [gasps]
Come on.
I'll take that. Boom. [giggles]
[Jürgen] I think it looks puddingy.
[Amanda] Ah!
Oh, disaster. They're all raw.
[sighs] It's all over. [chuckles]
Let's go for it.
You've gotta laugh, I'll say.
Anybody watching
will feel very sorry for me. [chuckling]
Bakers, you have one minute left.
[Freya] Ay caramba!
Right. Best-looking tuiles.
They're breaking!
Should've done it while it was hot.
-How many have I done so far?
-I feel like this might be your third.
-I'll have to mash that back up.
-Mash it up.
[Jürgen] Either side.
[Amanda] Do you think they'll notice
if I squash them in?
The sauces go on the side.
-[Chigs] Toffee sauce, it's not the best.
-[Freya] True nightmare.
-I suppose that's it.
-[Maggie] Et voilà.
Bakers, your time is up.
Jeez, phew, that was close, eh?
Place your sticky toffee puddings
behind your photographs.
I didn't put the flour in. [laughs]
-It was just one line…
-[both] On the next page.
-Didn't see it.
-Didn't see it, did I?
[Matt] Paul and Prue are looking
for four rich, sticky toffee puddings,
silky toffee sauce, smooth crème anglaise
and eight perfectly crispy tuiles.
-And they'll have no idea whose is whose.
-Nice.
-We got eight tuiles…
-[Prue] Mmm-hmm.
…with a bit of a snap.
The pudding looks pretty solid.
-The crumb's good.
-The sauce is a little bit stiff.
Let's see what the anglaise is like.
[Prue] That's very good.
-[Paul] That's not bad, that.
-I must say, that is delicious.
[Paul] Okay, moving on.
We have eight tuiles, all pretty uniform.
[Prue] Really nice and thin.
-[Paul] This looks--
-[Prue] Stodgy.
[Paul] Quite raw.
-[Paul] Yeah.
-[Prue] It's very, very underbaked.
-[Paul] Eight nice tuiles.
-[Prue] Very nice tuile.
-[Paul] Nice shape.
-I'm impressed with the custards.
-Yeah.
-Perfect.
Looks a little stodgy and underbaked.
It's a pity, because I had a bit
of the cooked bit and it's delicious.
[Paul] Hmm.
-Few issues. Wow.
-[Prue] This looks like a disaster.
The sticky toffee puddings
obviously came out too early.
They've managed to bake on the outside,
-but the inside's just raw.
-[Prue] Yes.
[Paul] Not bad.
Just a little bit longer on the caramel.
-This is just on the turn.
-[Paul] Yeah, it's curdled.
We have eight fairly even tuiles.
[Prue] And rather nice-looking puddings.
[Paul] Oh, that's well-baked. It's nice.
-The anglaise is good.
-Mmm.
-[Paul] Neat tuiles.
-[Prue] Very nice.
[Paul] Sponge is good.
Overall, that's pretty decent actually.
Moving on.
-[Prue] Well, they're underdone.
-[Paul] A bit raw in the middle.
Let's have a look at the sauces.
They've gone slightly over the edge.
It's gone almost treacle.
-[Prue] Right.
-[Paul] Burnt tuiles.
-Burnt to a cinder--
-[Prue] Rather funny shape.
-[Paul] Scrambled eggs.
-[Prue] Scrambled.
And underdone caramel.
Oh, dear.
Mmm. And that is raw. That's a shame.
-[Prue] Oh, dear.
-[Paul chuckles] What is that?
[Prue] Those tuiles look really good.
-Don't they!
-[Prue chuckles]
It looks like caramelised onion chutney.
[Prue chuckles] That's exactly
what it looks like.
[Paul] Burnt to a cinder.
-[Noel] You're not gonna try?
-[Paul] I'll leave it. Thanks.
-Moving on.
-[Prue] Last one.
[Paul] These tuiles aren't too bad,
I like the colour.
-We have a baked sponge.
-[Prue] Hmm.
[Paul] Let's have a look at the caramel.
[all laughing]
-[Noel] We'll spill it out.
-[Paul] Come on.
-Do it like a bottle of ketchup, maybe.
-Come on.
[grunts]
[Paul] Ah! We have fully-fledged toffee.
-Wow.
-[Matt] Yeah, I'm in.
This is gonna be interesting.
[Noel] Paul and Prue
will now rank the sticky toffee puddings
from worst to best.
In ninth place, this one.
Oh, Maggie.
This was a fair old disaster, wasn't it?
I made for you a gluten-free…
-[all laughing]
-…sticky toffee pudding.
-You forget to put the flour in?
-[Maggie] Yes.
[Prue] Oh, bad luck.
In eighth spot, we have this one.
Amanda. Raw, you burnt the tuiles,
you scrambled the crème anglaise
and caramel's not caramelised enough.
-But besides that, brilliant.
-[all chuckle]
[mouthing] Thank you.
In seventh place, we have this one.
George. Very raw puddings, sadly.
[Matt] Freya is sixth.
Crystelle is fifth.
Giuseppe, fourth and Chigs, third.
So in second spot, we have…
this one. Whose is this?
Lizzie.
Your sponge is pretty good,
crème anglaise is good
and your caramel sauce is good. Well done.
[Prue] Which means we have Jürgen.
[all cheering]
Thank you.
Really nice sticky toffee puddings.
Very good tuile.
Excellent crème anglaise.
Perfect sauce.
-Very good.
-Thank you.
[Jürgen] It's wonderful.
I hardly can believe it.
Winning the Technical in Dessert Week.
One I was afraid of,
but it seems I have to be afraid of…
[chuckles]
…to be on the spot and concentrated.
[Lizzie] Who knows what happened?
Came second, so thanks, everyone else,
for undercooking.
I will never, ever, ever, ever,
bake a sticky toffee pudding again.
My husband's the expert, I don't need to.
He's gotta be good at something.
I knew there had to be flour
and I just couldn't see it.
Nothing you can do
when you've made a very silly mistake.
I love making it really hard for myself.
So tomorrow I'll just
have to do amazingly. [chuckles]
[Noel] Just one more challenge remains
before Prue and Paul decide
Dessert Week's Star Baker.
And who will be asked to leave the tent.
Bakers, I hope you are rested and ready
for your Showstopper challenge.
[Noel] Today, Paul and Prue
would love you to make
a celebratory joconde imprime dessert.
An impressive, multi-layered dessert
wrapped in a joconde collar.
Now the collar is a key element
and must be highly decorative.
Classically, a joconde
is a whisked sponge with ground almonds.
You have four and a half hours.
Unfortunately, we've used four hours
explaining to you what this challenge is.
You got half an hour.
[Matt] Good luck.
-[Noel] On your marks…
-[Matt] Get set…
[Noel chuckles] Bake.
[Matt] Taken from the French nickname
for the Mona Lisa, the "joconde,"
the judges are expecting
highly decorative designs
to be baked into the baker's own
joconde collared masterpieces.
The idea is that our jocondes need to be
as decorative as the Mona Lisa.
So, no pressure.
I've been to see the Mona Lisa.
I didn't really like it that much.
I was like, "Is this it?" [chuckles]
What we're asking for
is a collar made of joconde sponge,
which has been imprinted with a design.
They can do anything they like
by way of dessert
inside this imprime collar.
[Paul] Now, they could be mousse,
they could be bavarois,
they could be crème pat,
they could be jelly dacquoise,
anything they want.
But it's about getting it all set.
Timing has to be right.
-We're over a third of the way through.
-[timer beeping]
[Paul] And we're left
with nine fantastic bakers.
So I'm expecting the best of the best.
-Hi, Lizzie.
-Hello.
-Hello, Lizzie.
Lizzie, we want to hear
about your joconde imprime.
It's a Liverpool version.
So I'm doing the Liverpool skyscape
on a hazelnut joconde.
Gonna pipe it all in red and blue
for the two football clubs.
Lovely.
[Noel] Liverpool's iconic skyline
will surround Lizzie's layered dessert
of chocolate genoise sponge,
hazelnut and pecan dacquoise
and pecan parfait,
topped with a dark chocolate
and moonshine ganache.
I think it's wonderfully ambitious.
All you have to do is produce it.
You have the people
of Liverpool behind you.
Especially this one.
So, this is the design paste.
Basically, it's just a cake batter.
[Noel] To create their joconde imprime,
the bakers must begin
by piping their intricate designs.
[George] I drew out the template myself.
Just thought, "Make it look nice."
[Noel] But Jürgen's the only baker
making sure his joconde collar
not only looks the part…
[humming "Pastime With Good Company"]
…but sounds the part too.
[Jürgen] The piece of music
is called "Pastime With Good Company."
It has been composed by Henry VIII himself
as a love song to Catherine of Aragon
from the 16th century.
[Matt] Jürgen's historical joconde imprime
will see classic Tudor flavours
in layers of English white wine jelly
with fresh strawberries, mint,
and black pepper
and white chocolate bavarois
wrapped in his
intricately-piped love song.
This is quite tricky.
Is this something you'd make at home?
Yes, I did a Star Trek one
as a wedding cake for a former--
Star Trek? [chuckling]
Two Spaceship Enterprises
kissing on the joconde.
-Wow.
-[chuckles]
[Matt] While Jürgen's
recreating the sixteenth century…
[Amanda] I need to get a wriggle on.
…Amanda's heading
even further back in time.
[Amanda] It's called Adam's Temptation,
'cause I thought
I'd go with an Adam and Eve theme.
That's why I've got the serpent
climbing around the apple tree.
[Noel] Amanda's dessert
will be of biblical proportions,
containing sinfully indulgent layers
of caramelised apple jelly
and boozy Calvados bavarois.
So, are we allowed to eat this?
Will you be tempted to eat it? I hope so.
I've got this done now.
[Noel] To preserve the definition
of their detailed designs…
[whimpers]
…the decorative paste must be firmly set
before it can be covered
with the second part of the collar…
-[Jürgen] No damage.
-…the joconde sponge.
So, I've got almond flour.
I'm gonna fold this in gently,
you basically don't wanna
knock out the air.
It's very pliable,
so you can bend it, fold it.
Hence why you use it to make the collar.
[Matt] And after
yesterday's Technical travesty…
To get this wrong is a disaster.
…Maggie's under even more pressure
to get her joconde right.
Just to let you know, this is plain flour.
-Really? And what do you do with that?
-You often put in sponges.
-[Maggie] Really?
-[both] It gives it a body. Yeah.
It's a bit late for this advice,
if I may say so…
[Paul laughing]
[Matt] To avoid any more mistakes,
Maggie's keeping things simple.
Her strawberry patent joconde collar
will hold layers of strawberry bavarois
and strawberry coulis.
-[laughing]
-[Paul] Just to let you know.
[Maggie] Thank you.
Got a ring around the plain flour.
[Prue] He'll tease you forever.
Just think about today.
It's going to be great.
-Yes. [laughs]
-[Lizzie gasps]
Oh, cold.
[Noel] To ensure their designs
stick to the joconde sponge…
It's nice and frozen.
Here it goes.
…speed is of the essence.
I'll have to work quickly,
otherwise the decoration will melt
and get smudged.
[Noel] But Chigs
is gonna have to work twice as fast.
A lot of people are doing one tier,
but I'm going for two.
Go big or go home.
[Matt] Based on his sister's
new bathroom tiles,
Chigs' geometric patterned joconde collars
will wrap around
black forest-flavoured layers
of cherry mousse, cherry jelly
and chocolate bavarois
for his ambitious two-tiered dessert.
[Noel] How do you motivate yourself?
[Chigs] I compete against myself.
I want to be better.
That's what my comedy agent used to say.
"Don't look at others,
just concentrate on yourself."
Exactly. And look how far you've got.
-Ah…
-You're doing well.
-Now I'm in a baking show.
-[both chuckle]
[Matt] And Chigs isn't the only baker
taking his joconde imprime
to the next level.
[George] I'm going for two tiers.
Just feel like I haven't
impressed Paul and Prue much
and I just want to
show them what I can do.
[Noel] George's joconde imprime
will be decorated with a flower design
inspired by his mum's garden.
Inside, there'll be layers
of caramel chocolate mousse,
dark chocolate-coated peanuts
and peanut butter bavarois.
Can you spell bavarois?
-B-A-V-O-I-R?
-No.
-Have you asked anyone else?
-No. Should we ask Amanda?
-Amanda, spell bavarois.
-Yes.
B-A-V-A-R-O-I-S?
Well done, madam. Well done.
The verdict is in, not guilty.
So, joconde goes in.
[Amanda] I'm gonna go
with ten minutes first.
They don't take long,
'cause they're so thin.
[Noel] When baking thin
and delicate sponges…
Setting timer to seven.
…timings and temperatures
are more crucial than ever.
[Crystelle] Both my sponges have gone in
for eight minutes at 200 degrees.
Fingers crossed.
[Noel] Underbaked joconde
will be too soft to stand up,
resulting in saggy collars.
[sighs] I'll just have to hope it bakes.
That's never happened before.
[Noel] Overbaked
and it will become too dry
and crack when wrapped
around their desserts.
[timer beeping]
[Freya] I'm gonna test them.
She can come out.
-[Lizzie] I'm out.
-[Maggie] Is it actually cooked enough?
I don't want to overdo it.
I don't know if the pattern
is still gonna be there.
We'll see.
[Chigs] Why's it gone so quiet?
Oh, it's sticking. I need a knife.
[Lizzie] I'm happy with how it's came out.
[Jürgen] It looks great.
[Freya] Oh, my God.
The pattern's come off.
-Should I just stick with it?
-Will you make it again?
You ain't got time.
[Maggie] It isn't quite cooked.
I didn't cook it long enough. I panicked.
I just don't want to make a mess of this,
so I am actually going to do it again.
Bakers, you're halfway through.
[Maggie] I did this
so precisely the first time.
He wants such a high finish,
doesn't he? [laughing]
I know. But you know, I want
a high finish when I deliver a baby.
-[both chuckle]
-So…
[Noel] How many babies have you delivered?
No idea, but every single one
was like the first one.
[Noel] Just remember, making a joconde
collar isn't a profound experience.
Delivering a baby is.
-That's so true.
-Stick that in your pipe, Paul Hollywood.
Take that with me.
[Matt] While Maggie
remakes her joconde collar…
[Maggie] This is the difference
between going home and staying.
…the rest of the bakers
can begin the monumental task…
-Whoopsie-daisies.
-Whoops.
[George] The pressure is mounting.
…of creating the multiple mousses,
jellies and sponges.
This is the most complicated thing
I have ever made in my entire life.
[Matt] But that's not stopping Giuseppe
from following
in his father's revered footsteps.
My dad was a professional chef
and a passionate baker.
I took inspiration from one of the most
beautiful wedding cakes
that he made for a family friend.
Mine is not gonna be as grand as my dad's.
I can only try to be as fractionally
good as he's ever been.
[Matt] Giuseppe's joconde imprime dessert
will see layers of Genoise Sponge
with pistachio and red fruit bavarois,
decorated with fresh fruits
in an epic recreation
of his dad's wedding cake.
You have, by any chance, a spare bench?
'Cause I--
-[Noel giggling]
-I've clearly run out of space here.
Look how clean his bench is.
-It's weird isn't it?
-That's German engineering.
-So freakish.
-German engineering.
You don't expect the Italian engineering
to be, you know…
Not quite as good.
It's a little haphazard.
-But, you know, the results are good.
-Yeah, we get the job done.
-You get the job done.
-Yeah.
[sighs]
[Noel] With so many
different layers to make…
[Amanda] Trouble is,
it's only one arm, isn't it?
…the bakers must ensure
that every element is perfectly set.
[Jürgen] I'll start with the wine
because the alcohol works
against the setting.
So, a bowl of some alcohol.
[Noel] And Jürgen's not the only one…
Five, six… Oh! Seven.
…risking hitting the bottle.
[Crystelle] This is coconut rum.
It's called, "Una Piña Colada, Por Favor."
[giggles]
It's just holiday in a drink.
[Noel] To bring back distant memories
of sipping cocktails in the sun,
Crystelle's dessert
will resemble a pineapple
and hold layers of pineapple
and coconut rum compote,
lime jelly and coconut bavarois.
How many leaves of gelatin
are you putting in there?
-Six, seven?
-Uh, so in the bavarois, there's 13.
[Paul] Wow.
[Prue] Oh, my goodness,
you are a brave girl.
-[Matt] Good luck.
-Thank you, will need it.
[Matt] While the rest of the bakers
are relying on their gelatin…
The tofu gives, like,
a really smooth, like, mousse.
…vegan Freya
is having to get creative once again.
You don't really
have problems with it setting
because it just, like,
resets back like tofu.
[Matt] In a rectangular joconde imprime,
Freya's chocolate and orange mousse
will be accompanied by orange jelly,
as well as layers of hazelnut dacquoise
and Italian meringue buttercream.
Made once again
with her vegan egg white substitute.
You're using Swiss Meringue
and dacquoise as well.
A lot of aquafaba going in this.
It seems like a lot.
-[Paul] Right.
-But it's actually not that much.
I hope it's gonna be one of those things
that you just, like,
would never know that it's vegan.
That's my goal, anyway.
-Bakers--
-Bakers, you've--
-[both laughing]
-Have an hour left.
[yelling in exasperation]
We're going in for eight right now.
[Matt] While Maggie is back
to baking her joconde collar…
[Maggie] Live dangerously,
that's what I like to do.
…for the rest of the bakers…
[Crystelle] Oh, this is so tense.
…cake construction can commence.
Time is key now.
So everything sets in time.
Everybody's terrified
about collapsing cakes.
[Matt] But it's a process
that can't be rushed…
I'm gonna put the base layer in first.
It's important that it's nice
and tight and snug.
…as any gaps or cracks in the collar…
Oh, careful, George.
…and the fillings will ooze out
before they can set.
I'll just block up the holes.
Thank goodness for extras.
[Chigs] Cherry mousse, going in first.
[Prue] Almost all the of the bakers
are doing quite complicated constructions,
aren't they?
[Paul] It's a really tricky challenge.
[Freya] It doesn't look like tofu now,
does it?
-Freya, that's the hardest job.
-[Prue] Yeah.
Doing a vegan joconde and vegan fillings
and vegan bavarois.
[Matt] So you're doing not a round collar?
A bit of tactics because the vegan sponge
is not very bendy.
Actually, I'm more worried
about Crystelle.
Because she has that piña colada bavarois.
[Crystelle] It's so risky,
because if that bavarois is not set,
the whole thing just collapses.
I've just got to go for it now.
[Prue] I'm worried about Maggie.
-Their main challenge is going to be time.
-[Paul] It's gonna be hard, Prue.
It's brownish. What more can I do?
[Amanda] This is apple jelly.
[gasps]
No!
And we're winging it.
[sighs]
Making sure that it's all level and now,
this can finally go in the freezer.
-[thuds]
-Oh, my God.
-[Noel] Gently does it.
-[Crystelle laughs]
-Did the puppet walk.
-I did. I know. Mortifying.
[Amanda] It just needs to set.
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
Sort it out!
I can't believe people
get paid for doing that.
Amanda, neither can we.
I am confident it's going to set.
Set! [chuckles]
[Matt] While their cakes cool…
[George] Hopefully,
it's doing its thing in there.
…things are heating up for the bakers…
It's all go, go, go.
…as they still have their final
layers and decorations to make.
I'm preparing the final element
of my cake which is the mirror glaze.
[Crystelle] I'm making my lime jelly,
which will go on the top.
My bavarois, which is setting and should
be set in 16 seconds, apparently.
[both cheering]
[timer beeping]
[Jürgen] I'll check on the bavarois.
Yeah, it's good enough.
This is so tense,
because if that bavarois has not set,
then you'll watch me crumble
and burn, like my joconde.
Oh, tension!
Mirror glaze, still quite warm,
but it should be okay. Gonna put it on.
[Maggie] That's the strawberry coulis.
Hoping that it doesn't leak out
when I take it out of the mould.
[Maggie] This is gonna go splodge.
[Jürgen] I'm going to pour
the jelly in the freezer.
[Chigs] No more layers,
this is all decoration now.
Chigs, you're shaking the entire ground.
-Don't wobble this piece of floor.
-[Chigs] Soz.
Bakers, you have ten minutes left.
Shall I take it out?
Coming out.
[Crystelle] Right.
Come on, jelly. Please be set.
Life has never felt more tense.
It's still quite liquid, but I'm gonna
go in. I can't wait any longer.
[Freya] Is that just gonna fall apart?
It's standing still, so I'm all right.
There we go.
It looks like the jelly didn't leak.
[Amanda gasps]
Ah! It's all coming out!
My thing's leaked a little bit.
[breathing heavily]
It's not set properly.
I can't take the collar off
'cause it's going to completely collapse.
[George] I think it's getting stuck
on the peanut layer.
I'm a happy man now, yeah.
Get in there.
Bakers, you have one minute left.
Shall we go for it now?
I can hold it till they say, "walk away."
It's beastly unfair
that it hasn't behaved.
[exhales deeply]
[Crystelle] Shaking.
Bakers, your time is up.
[Noel] Please step away from your bakes.
[Maggie chuckling] There we go.
The avalanche has started.
We might as well go out with a bang.
[Noel] It's judgement time
for our bakers' joconde imprimes.
Jürgen, would you like to bring
your Showstopper up, please?
Well, I think it looks absolutely amazing.
[Paul] The wine jelly.
You've got a few little bubbles in there.
But I like the way it's set.
That view looks lovely.
That cut through beautifully.
-Wow.
-[Jürgen] It's topped by wine jelly.
Then white chocolate Bavarian
with black pepper.
Then a genoise and then at the bottom
there's a hazelnut dacquoise.
That is such a luxurious, creamy,
boozy mouthful.
Your textures of everything are gorgeous.
-I can't get the black pepper.
-No, I'm looking for the pepper.
Usually it comes a bit later.
-Okay, let's just wait for a minute.
-[all chuckling]
[Paul] If you'd like to sing.
[humming "Pastime With Good Company"]
-[clapping]
-That's very familiar.
-Got the pepper.
-[Jürgen] Got the pepper?
[all laughing]
Excellent.
This is inspired
by a crime scene that I went to.
[all laughing]
When I was very young in service.
So I think you struggled with the joconde.
And the dam has broken
when it was still trying to set.
[Amanda] It's genoise sponge
with Calvados Bavarian cream,
with caramelised apple jelly.
And the top is a maple syrup glaze.
They look like very beautiful layers. Mmm.
You know, it tastes absolutely delicious,
but it does not taste a lot of apple.
You're getting more
of an alcoholic flavour.
The texture of everything is great.
But unfortunately you drowned
everything out with that Calvados.
You've lost some of the definition,
but it's pretty.
I think overall,
it's quite a professional-looking piece.
Very, very elegant.
The filling is two types of bavarois,
pistachio and raspberry and strawberry.
[Paul] Mmm, great layers.
Oh, look at that, soft as anything.
-Beautiful.
-Oh.
Great flavours. Great acidity.
The genoise has been baked beautifully.
It's lovely and soft.
I mean, you'd serve that
at a decent hotel.
-How many stars?
-Oh, a good five.
-[Prue] Excellent.
-Thank you very much.
[Matt and Noel] Well done.
The bin's for you.
-"I'm wheelie born in Liverpool."
-[Paul] Oh, right, yeah.
-[all laughing]
-I love it.
You got the Liverpool skyline,
which is pretty cool.
It's a bit rudimentary.
[chuckling] Dacquoise is
a little bit tough.
[Prue] It's hard work, Lizzie.
[Paul] I think your texture's all wrong,
but your flavours are beautiful.
-It's wheelie good.
-There you go.
[all laughing]
[Paul] Well, I think it looks beautiful.
The pipework is particularly good.
Simple, but effective. [clicks tongue]
[Prue] Those layers are really lovely.
They're very powerful flavours.
The coconut and lime
is just beautiful. Mmm.
The lime, it's so powerful.
I would've pulled that back a little bit.
But everything else I'm happy with.
Thank you.
[Prue] I like the flower patterns.
But where the joins are,
it's a bit clumsy. It's sort of lopsided.
-Well, what am I--
-The peanut layer.
Oh, literally you've got
a layer of peanuts.
[crunching]
You certainly get the peanut flavour
and the peanut crunch.
[Paul] That peanut layer is ridiculous.
Can't get through it.
I think you've just gone overkill
with the peanuts.
-I quite like peanuts.
-[all laughing]
[Paul] It looks amazing.
The joconde's well done.
-I mean, this was taken from a tile.
-[Chigs chuckles] Yeah.
And it's so original
and it looks startling.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] And two tiers.
Looks like a delicious bathroom.
[chuckles]
The bavarois are perfection.
They are perfection.
Your flavours
and your textures are superb.
They're just firm enough to stay up.
I mean, it's really clever.
I don't even like Black Forest gateau
and I love that.
Thank you.
[Prue] You've lost some of the imprime.
It's a bit messy,
but let's have a look inside, shall we?
[Freya] The joconde is chocolate hazelnut.
Then there's a hazelnut dacquoise
and then a layer
of Italian meringue buttercream,
then a chocolate orange mousse
and then on top, it's orange jelly.
[Paul] It's set quite hard.
It's more like a ganache.
-Yeah, yeah.
-[Paul] The mousse.
-I think the orange is too strong.
-[Paul] So strong.
[Prue] But I actually think
your joconde is really good.
Thank you.
It needed a cream, it needed something
in there to hold everything together.
I've had some beautiful vegan cakes.
It's not one of the better ones.
See the Dam Busters have been in.
[laughing]
Let's have a look at it.
[Prue] Well, it's a very pretty colour.
Mmm.
Maggie, the flavour is lovely.
It's the essence of summer.
The strawberries are just beautiful.
[Paul] Where's your second
element in this?
The bavarois and the coulis.
[Paul] Ah, that's the second element.
What have you been doing
for four and a half hours?
-Doing it twice.
-[Paul] Ah, did you do it twice?
-Flavours are lovely.
-[Prue] And the joconde is good.
-Thank you so much.
-[Paul] Thank you.
You've been more than kind.
[Maggie chuckling] It was what it was.
They did say it tasted lovely,
but I think they were just being kind.
Really happy with what I delivered.
Think I might be up for consideration
for Star Baker.
But Giuseppe's and Jürgen's,
theirs is just another level.
[Freya] I feel like
that was pretty brutal,
to be honest with you.
It's not that I don't agree.
But, like, I kinda just don't agree.
[laughs]
Well, that Showstopper
ran the gamut, didn't it?
[Paul] Giuseppe, Jürgen, Chigs.
I think they've all done
quite well out of this.
-Jürgen's was an amazing concept.
-I think Jürgen's was beautiful.
But if you have another look
at Chigs', it's still holding well.
All the layers were there.
The taste was delicious.
-Fantastic flavour.
-[Paul] Some of them did collapse.
There was a couple of people that messed
up a bit with textures and flavours.
You look at Maggie, she classed the puree
on top as a second element.
That's not the case.
-You're not buying it.
-[Paul] I'm not buying it.
It split as well.
I mean, it poured out all over the place.
But also
I was really disappointed in Freya.
Because although she did better
with the dacquoise in this,
it was far too thick.
[Paul] That was very dry.
But then you look at Amanda's,
the Calvados in that bavarois
was the only thing you could taste.
-And it split.
-But it tasted nice.
You gotta look back
on the two challenges as well.
We'll have another cup of tea
and another slice of cake,
-and then we'll make a decision.
-Slice of cake.
[mimics Worzel Gummidge] Cup of tea
and a slice of cake, Aunt Sally.
Well, bakers,
thank you for another great week.
It falls to me to announce
who the Star Baker is.
And that person is…
Chigs.
-[Matt] Congratulations!
-[cheering]
Okay, bakers, that means
that I've got the horrible job this week
of announcing the person who's leaving us,
and we're really gonna miss them.
The person who's leaving us this week is…
Maggie.
It's been such good fun.
[chuckling] It's been such…
[Prue] Maggie, honestly,
you've done so well.
[Maggie] The whole thing
has been such fun, really.
And just to have been part of it
is just a complete joy.
[Matt] We're going to miss you so much.
To have stayed for four weeks.
I think it comes pretty high, really.
On a personal level,
nothing can beat delivering a baby.
And bringing a new life into the world.
But it comes quite second.
Just having a bad week.
-You'll have a good week next week.
-Thank you, I will.
Ah, God. Nightmare. [laughs]
I feel like
I definitely scraped through that.
Glad to be here,
but I'm really sad to see Maggie go.
-[Paul] Well done, Chigs.
-Thank you very much, Paul.
[sighs in relief]
[Chigs] What the hell just happened?
Thank you.
Get a handshake
and Star Baker in the same week.
[Crystelle] Oh, you bloody smashed it.
Can't believe it. I'm honestly…
I am so speechless right now.
It never happens. But I'm lost for words.
[Paul] I think Chigs
smashed it out the park.
I think all three challenges,
he was exceptionally good.
I mean, for a guy who said
he'd been baking up to 12 months ago,
he's done an amazing job.
I got Star Baker, Mum.
-[Chigs' mother] Am I on TV?
-Yeah!
[Chigs' mother laughing]
-Congratulations, I'm so proud of you!
-Thank you, Mum.
-So proud of you. I love you.
-Thank you. I love you too!
[uplifting music playing]